---
title: Contributing
description: Report bugs and contribute pull-requests
---

### All Contributions Are Welcome

Please don't hesitate to create a PR. It doesn't have to be perfect. It doesn't
have to be genius. But we do have one request: it does have to be *yours*.

That doesn't mean you can't or shouldn't use LLMs while coding. LLMs have been
involved in many aspects of building this project by most maintainers.

What it does mean is that you are willing to take a sense of ownership of the
PR. If you don't understand what your code does, now is the time to work with
the community to grow your understanding. If that doesn't sound like something
you can undertake right now, then feel free to create an issue or a discussion
so we can understand how to make den better for you.

PRs are checked by CI, which will give you helpful automated tips for ensuring
your contribution meets the minimum standards for contributing to the codebase.

### AI-assisted Contributions Policy

AI assisted code contributions are subject to you agree with the following:

Tag your Issue / Pull-Request with the `ai-assisted` tag for future tracking and accountability.

Copy these terms into your PR description, and check them:

```markdown
I <your-legal-name>, explicitly aknowledge the following:
- [ ] My contribution is AI generated and I mention which models/mcp-servers/tools were used.
- [ ] I recognize AI generated contribution as my own and am myself legally accountable for it.
- [ ] My contribution aligns with Den LICENSE and does not violate any other projects licenses (e.g. GPL)
- [ ] I will truthfully answer and provide any requested details on how contribution was generated.
```

Having marked those, ensure that

- Your contribution is minimal and does not introduce unnecessary, unrelated, accidental complexity.
- You removed repetition and polished code as you would have authored it and is suitable for maintainers.
- You are responsable for problems/bugs caused by your contribution and will promptly fix them.
- The bigger the contribution the more likely it will be rejected. Make several focused PRs.
- Do not ask maintainers to read or interpret prose generated by an AI for you.
- Please avoid sending AI assisted PR if you are not willing to understand Den codebase first.

### Run tasks

Use `just help` to get a list of all tasks.

```console
just fmt
just ci
```

### Bug Reports

Use the [bogus template](/tutorials/bogus) to create a minimal reproduction.

Failing tests are an awesome way to improve Den. Thanks :)

### Contributing Documentation

The documentation website is under `./docs/`. Please help correct mistakes by sending a PR!

First, clone your fork of the repository.

```console
git clone 'https://github.com/<your-username>/den'
cd den
```

Next, enter a nix shell.
```console
## Classic tooling
nix-shell

## or flakes tooling!
nix develop
```

Then, change to the docs directory and install the necessary dependencies to `docs/node_modules`.

```console
cd docs
pnpm install
```

Finally, start the docs webserver.

```console
just docs
```

Now, you can edit the `.mdx` files in `docs/src/content/docs` and see your changes reflected immediately.


### Helping other people

One of the best forms of contribution does not even require submitting code. Hang out in our community
channels and help others with onboarding to den!

Thanks, You are awesome!

